Jak and Daxter: Implement New Game (#3291)
ArchipelagoMW/Archipelago: worlds/jakanddaxter/docs/en_Jak and Daxter The Precursor Legacy.md

| Jump Kick       |                    |
| Punch           |                    |
| Punch Uppercut  | Punch              |
| Kick            |                    |

## How do I know which moves I have?
Open the game's menu, navigate to `Options`, then `Archipelago Options`, then `Move Tracker`.
This will show you a list of all the moves in the game. 
- Gray items indicate you do not possess that move.
- Yellow items indicate you possess that move, but you are missing its prerequisites.
- Light blue items indicate you possess that move, as well as its prerequisites.

## What does Orbsanity do?
If you enable Orbsanity, Precursor Orbs will be turned into ordered lists of progressive checks. Every time you collect 
a "bundle" of the correct number of orbs, you will trigger the next release in the list. Likewise, these bundles of orbs 
will be added to the item pool to be randomized. There are several options to change the difficulty of this challenge. 

- "Per Level" Orbsanity means the lists of orb checks are generated and populated for each level in the game.
    - (Geyser Rock, Sandover Village, etc.)
- "Global" Orbsanity means there is only one list of checks for the entire game.

>     - It does not matter where you pick up the orbs, they all count toward the same list.

Author: Updated.

- The options with "Bundle Size" in the name indicate how many orbs are in a "bundle." This adds a number of Items 
  and Locations to the pool inversely proportional to the size of the bundle.
    - For example, if your bundle size is 20 orbs, you will add 100 items to the pool. If your bundle size is 250 orbs,
      you will add 8 items to the pool.

### A WARNING ABOUT ORBSANITY OPTIONS

Unlike other settings, you CANNOT alter Orbsanity options after you generate a seed and start a game. **If you turn 

> Orbsanity OFF in the middle of an Orbsanity game, you will have NO way of completing the orb checks.** This may cause

Author: Agreed, and there is a way to lock down settings in the OpenGOAL pause menu, but I just need to make sure their mechanism for locking still allows us to change the setting by sending the right command to the game when we connect to the AP server. Research item.

> Orbsanity OFF in the middle of an Orbsanity game, you will have NO way of completing the orb checks.** This may cause

Author: Just tested this and yes, you can lock down the settings _and_ still change them with the correct command. The locking mechanism is actually a lambda function, so you can tell it lock on a given condition. I chose to ask whether or not the game has the debug flag set to True, because we disable that flag when you connect to the AP server, but it also allows for easy testing and troubleshooting of the mod as a standalone program. Quite happy with this change, thanks for the feedback!

> Orbsanity OFF in the middle of an Orbsanity game, you will have NO way of completing the orb checks.** This may cause

Author: ![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/bb5ba541-99b7-4552-9073-f51b6fe1ff3d)
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/867cfc9d-f1f3-4ece-af3b-90c9eec3ab3d)

you to miss important progression items and prevent you (and others) from completing the run.

When you connect your text client to the Archipelago Server, the server will tell the game what settings were chosen
for this seed, and the game will apply those settings automatically. You can verify (but DO NOT ALTER) these settings 
by navigating to `Options`, then `Archipelago Options`, then `Seed Options`.

> 

Author: Why should this warning be removed? Scipio has asked that I ensure those options are not changeable mid-game, and players have asked why that is the case, so I added the blurb above to the doc.

> 

Reviewer: It's my understanding that the current client does not allow orbsanity to be changed when connecting. Therefore, you don't need a warning if you can't change it to begin with.

> 

Author: Hmmm, maybe I was being too harsh. On re-read, this blurb implies that it's OK to change other settings in the middle of a run. I can reword this to be more accurate and less tacit in the changeability of settings.

# Jak And Daxter (ArchipelaGOAL)

## FAQ
- [Where is the Options page?](#where-is-the-options-page)
- [What does randomization do to this game?](#what-does-randomization-do-to-this-game)
- [What are the Special Checks and how do I check them?](#what-are-the-special-checks-and-how-do-i-check-them)
- [What are the Special Items and what do they unlock?](#what-are-the-special-items-and-what-do-they-unlock)
- [How do I know which Special Items I have?](#how-do-i-know-which-special-items-i-have)
- [What is the goal of the game once randomized?](#what-is-the-goal-of-the-game-once-randomized)
- [What happens when I pick up or receive a Power Cell?](#what-happens-when-i-pick-up-or-receive-a-power-cell)
- [What happens when I pick up or receive a Scout Fly?](#what-happens-when-i-pick-up-or-receive-a-scout-fly)
- [How do I check the 'Free 7 Scout Flies' Power Cell?](#how-do-i-check-the-free-7-scout-flies-power-cell)

> - [What does Deathlink do?](#what-does-deathlink-do)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [What does Death Link do?](#what-does-death-link-do)
```
In the standard option description, it's split into 2 words

| Blue Eco Switch        | Collect the power cell on the blue vent switch in Forbidden Jungle           |
| Flut Flut              | Push the egg off the cliff in Sentinel Beach and talk to the bird lady       |
| Warrior's Pontoons     | Talk to the Warrior in Rock Village once (you do NOT have to trade with him) |
| Snowy Mountain Gondola | Approach the gondola in Volcanic Crater                                      |
| Yellow Eco Switch      | Collect the power cell on the yellow vent switch in Snowy Mountain           |
| Snowy Fort Gate        | Ride the Flut Flut in Snowy Mountain and press the fort gate switch          |
| Freed The Blue Sage    | Free the Blue Sage in Gol and Maia's Citadel                                 | 
| Freed The Red Sage     | Free the Red Sage in Gol and Maia's Citadel                                  | 
| Freed The Yellow Sage  | Free the Yellow Sage in Gol and Maia's Citadel                               | 
| Freed The Green Sage   | Free the Green Sage in Gol and Maia's Citadel                                | 

## What are the special items and what do they unlock

> | Item Name                                                                | What It Unlocks                                                                               |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Item Name                                                                | What it Unlocks                                                                               |
```
Title case usually doesn't capitalize words like "it"

When you pick up a scout fly, your scout fly count will NOT change. The pause menu will show you the number of
scout flies you picked up per-region, and this number will have ticked up by 1 for the region that scout fly belongs to. 
Finally, your text client will inform you what you found and who it belongs to.

When you receive a scout fly, your total scout fly count will tick up by 1. The pause menu will show you the number of
scout flies you received per-region, and this number will have ticked up by 1 for the region that scout fly belongs to. 
Finally, your text client will inform you where you received the scout fly from, and which one it is.

## How do I check the Free 7 Scout Flies power cell
You will automatically check this power cell when you _receive_ your 7th scout fly, NOT when you _pick up_ your 7th
scout fly. So in short:

- When you _pick up_ your 7th fly, the normal rules apply. 
- When you _receive_ your 7th fly, 2 things will happen in quick succession.
    - First, you will receive that scout fly, as normal.
    - Second, you will immediately complete the "Free 7 Scout Flies" check, which will send out another item.

> ## What does Deathlink do
> If you enable Deathlink, all the other players in your Multiworld who also have it enabled will be linked on death. 
> That means when Jak dies in your game, the players in your Deathlink group also die. Likewise, if any of the other 
> players die, Jak will also die in a random, possibly spectacular fashion.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## What does Death Link do
If you enable Death Link, all the other players in your Multiworld who also have it enabled will be linked by death. 
That means when Jak dies in your game, the players in with Death Link also die. Likewise, if any of the other 
players with Death Link die, Jak will also die in a random, possibly spectacular fashion.
```
Some consistency, some strict accuracy

> You can turn off Deathlink at any time in the game by opening the game's menu and navigating to `Options`, 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can turn off Death Link at any time in the game by opening the game's menu and navigating to `Options`, 
```

editing the `host.yaml`. In the Archipelago Launcher, click `Open host.yaml`, then search for `jakanddaxter_options`,
then search for `enforce_friendly_options`, then change this value from `true` to `false`. Disabling this allows for 
more disruptive and challenging options, but it may cause seed generation to fail. **Use at your own risk!**

## How do I check my player options in-game
When you connect your text client to the Archipelago Server, the server will tell the game what options were chosen
for this seed, and the game will apply those settings automatically. 

You can verify these options by navigating to `Options`, then `Archipelago Options`, then `Seed Options`. **You can open 
each option to verify them, but you should NOT alter them during a run.** This may cause you to miss important 
progression items and prevent you (and others) from completing the run.

## How does the HUD work
The game's normal HUD shows you how many power cells, precursor orbs, and scout flies you currently have. But if you 
hold `L2 or R2` and press a direction on the D-Pad, the HUD will show you alternate modes. Here is how the HUD works:

> | HUD Mode      | Button Combo                 | What The HUD Shows                | Text Messages                         |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| HUD Mode      | Button Combo                 | What the HUD Shows                | Text Messages                         |
```
